Deliverable 2 - fashion parsing
What do you need to do in this task?
● Fashion semantic segmentation
On which dataset?
● Fashionpedia: https://fashionpedia.github.io/home/
Using which code base?
● MMSegmentation: https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmsegmentation
● Or any code you find more convenient

Fashion parsing
Hierarchical segmentation and
attribute detection
- We do not consider item
parts and attributes in this
practice,
- Only the person in the
middle has been annotated.
- We use the validation set to
report the results.

Deliverable 2 - Tasks
1- Analyze the dataset for the distribution of the labels by:
● Counting the number of images per label,
● Mean and variance for the pixel ratio per label:
○ (# of pixels of label j in image i) / (# of pixels in image i),
○ (# of pixels of label j in image i) / (# of foreground pixels in image i) ====> in this case
we exclude the background

Deliverable 2 - Tasks
2- Choose three segmentation networks (justification is required) from the MMSegmentation
implementations and finetune them on the fashionpedia dataset, as far as your resources allows,
as following:
● Tune the learning rate and batch size,
● Apply the basic data augmentation like rotation, scaling, cropping, mosaic, cutout,
mixup, etc,
● Train based on 192 vs 384 px image resolution. Is there any relationship between the
resolution and accuracy of each label?
Select the best performing network and resolution and do the following:
● Discard the large and overrepresented labels (check per label metric) and finetune the
network with the same hyperparameters as above. Does this make any difference to
the results of the remaining labels?

Deliverable 2 - Tasks
3- Train YOLO based instance segmentation and compare the results with the
previous models. 

Deliverable 2 - Tasks
4- Without implementing any code or training, just discuss two possible ideas to
improve the results. Back up your idea by referring to SOTA.
NOTES for writing the report:
● Justify your choices,
● Thoroughly discuss the results both qualitatively and quantitatively,
● Report the results using accuracy and mDice metrics excluding the
background,
● Your best performing network must show at least 20% mDice.