Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
● Given an image of a person, cropped in the preprocessing (red rectangle), the
goal is to estimate its corresponding depth image.

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
● Dataset:
○ A subset of the CLOTH3D++ dataset (https://chalearnlap.cvc.uab.cat/dataset/38/description/), could be downloaded from
cloth3d++_subset.zip. The first 128 folders (00001 to 00152) must be used for training, the following 16 folders
(00153 to 00168) for validation and the rest for test.
○ You can play with the data, see data structure, visualize the 3D, render depth images and extract frames from
the RGB videos using the given starter kit.
○ If you use colab, the content of the starter kit must be uploaded to your google drive under “cloth3d” folder.
● Preprocessing:
○ Crop and save the images such that 1) the center of the subject and cropping to be the same, 2) leave 10px
margin between cropping and subject boundaries, and 3) apply square cropping. NOTE: in some frames the
subject may go out ot the scene. You can ignore these frames, for instance by counting the number of pixels in
the mask and thresholding. The frames must be saved as .jpg under “image” folder with naming protocol
“<folder name where the video is located>_<frame number>”
○ Rendered depth must be cropped similar to RGB frame and saved as .npy (using numpy.save) under “depth”
folder with the same naming protocol as RGB frames.
○ The cropped images can be resized to 256x256 before saving them. Note that resizing the depth images could
be tricky especially for the boundaries due to the effect of the zero background. You can compare nearest
neighbor vs bilinear interpolation for resizing

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
Metrics
● Depth: RMSE
● Normals: Mean angular error
● Efficiency:
○ FPS
○ GPU memory
○ Parameter count
● Support your results with qualitative images

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
1- Data preprocessing and baseline training:
● Preprocess the data as stated before,
● A simple baseline code is given for depth estimation using a light weight UNET architecture,
● Explore:
○ Resolution: 256 vs 384,
○ Relevant data augmentation: shifting, horizontal flip, scaling/cropping, rotation, shearing
○ Learning rate vs batch size importance
Questions:
● What makes monocular depth ill-posed?
● Compare the results

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
2- Transformer architectures for dense prediction:
● Replace UNET with one of the following encoder architectures (pretrained on ImageNet):
○ DeiT-Small ➡ simple and efficient
○ Swin-Tiny ➡ hierarchical features
○ EfficientFormer ➡ Transformer–CNN hybrid
● Implement a decoder: simple bilinear upscaling vs lightweight feature pyramid network
● Explore:
○ Patch size 8 vs 16,
○ Two transfer learning techniques that you learned in the first practice,
Questions:
● Do transformers preserve spatial detail?
● Where do they fail vs CNNs?
● What is more important in accuracy gains: transfer learning, patch size, decoder design, etc?
● Discuss architecture diagram, memory vs speed, performance vs CNN, 

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
3- weak supervision and geometry-aware losses:
● Weak Supervision
○ Ranking loss
○ Normal consistency loss: implement a differentiable normal map layer derived from the network output vs GT depth
and apply per pixel L1 loss
● Geometry-aware
○ Scale-invariant depth loss
○ Body pose and depth multi-tasking: by the help of the starter kit, project 14 main SMPL joints to the image and
use XY coordinates to train the multi-tasking model. To do so, create another decoder branch with the shape
(Height, Width, 14) and apply soft-argmax on each output channel. Then, perform L1 loss between soft-argmax
and GT XY coordinates. For the depth branch, use pixel-wise L1 loss between the GT and estimated depth.
Questions:
● Analyze and compare:
○ Full supervision vs weak-only vs geometry aware,
○ Failure modes: textured vs smooth areas, around edges, etc
○ Stability vs accuracy
○ Losses: convergence speed, overfitting, etc

Deliverable 3 - Body and cloth depth estimation
4- final integration: maximize the performance with what you’ve learned so far.